# CSS Tricks: BEM 101

https://css-tricks.com/bem-101/

## What is BEM?

BEM, which stand for "Block, Element, Modifier", is one of the more popular ways of naming classes in HTML and CSS. Its
basic goal is to make the relationships betwen elements more clear to developers.

Here's a basic example of BEM code:

```css
/* Block component */
.btn { }

/* Elements that depend on the block */
.btn__price { }
.btn__test { }

/* Modifiers that change the style of the block */
.btn--orange { }
.btn--big { }
```

In this example, there are blocks, elements, and modifiers for the blocks.

A block is basically a high-level abstraction of a component you can add to your web page. It's the most basic form of
the component that you'll ever use – the set of styles and rules that you'll use in every single block of that type, no
matter what. In this case, the `.btn` class refers to all button elements that will go in the page, and defines the
set of styles that they all have in common.

An element is basically a child of the block. By naming it in terms of a specific block, you make it clear that the
element cannot exist by itself or inside a different block. All BEM elements are written in the form
`<block name>__<element name>`. If you're following the main style guide, the names must always be separated by two
underscores (`__`).

Finally, a block modifier is a piece of code that extends the base functionality of a block. You can use multiple
modifiers for the same block, as long as they don't try to modify the same set of properties. For example,
`.btn--orange` affects color, while `.btn--big` affects size, allowing you to use the two together. But if you were to
use BEM modifiers like `.btn-blue` and `.btn--orange`, you'd have a conflict, as they'd both be trying to modify the
block's color. All block modifiers are written in the form `<block name>--<modifier name>`. Per the default style guide,
the names must be separated with two hyphens (`--`).

And here's what HTML that uses those classes might look like:

```html
<a class="btn btn--big btn--orange" href="http://css-tricks.com">
    <span class="btn__price">$9.99</span>
    <span class="btn__text">Subscribe</span>
</a>
```

With this in place, if you have a developer come on board, they will quicker to come to terms with how the code is
structured. They can then add more classes in the same style to the CSS, or, without touching the CSS, combine existing
classes to create a wide variety of blocks. Modifying blocks also becomes easier. If you have a big button that you want
to change the color of, you just need to modify the color-based modifiers; you don't need to touch anything else.

## Why should you use BEM?

### 1. It makes creating new components easier

With BEM, whenever you find yourself needing to create a new component, you can see what parts about it are actually
unique among the parts you already have defined. If you want to create a big red button, you might only need to write
the code for making a button red.

### 2. It makes dependencies more obvious

Whenever you see a class with a name like `.video--comments`, just the name gives you a fair bit of information:

1. The class is for a BEM element
2. The class is for an comment element
3. The comment element depends on a video block and the class will never be found outside one.

### 3. It makes it easier to share components between team members

Developers are going to spring for naming their elements different things. But if you make them write their class names
using BEM notation and have them write the class properties so that they play well with other components, that increases
consistency between all them. BEM basically has a style guide built in.

### 4. It improves developer confidence when they have to deal with legacy code

One of the biggest problems with vanilla CSS at scale is that it's hard to tell exactly what most code does at a glance.
Time is wasted just trying to figure out what some code does and how it can be modified without breaking anything. By
making the relationships between elements more obvious, developers are more likely to have a good idea of how changing
some segment of code will impact everything else.

### 5. Because everything is class-based, nothing is nested

This means that CSS specificity is kept very low. And that means that you won't have to spend as much time fighting
with yourself over specificity levels.

## Problems with ~~BEM~~ CSS

Let's look at a selector with a lot of (CSS, not BEM) elements in it:

```css
.nav .nav__listItem .btn--orange {
    background-color: green;
}
```

This certainly looks like BEM – parts of the selector involve BEM class names – but it is not itself BEM. It uses nested
selectors, and much worse yet, the selector's property doesn't match up with the selector parts. Why use a class that's
written specifically to make a button orange to make an item green?

This could all be avoided by heeding a guiding principle that helps keep BEM untangled: modifiers are for modifying
blocks, not the other way around. Blocks should **never** modify modifiers, and going a step further, nor should they
modify other blocks. Entangling the code like this makes it harder to read for no good reason. If you're going to do
that, why bother with BEM in the first place? If you can't trust the code to do what it says, then how are you to make
any kind decisions without fear of making things even worse?

You should be applying this level of scrutiny to your HTML, too. What are you supposed to do with this?

```html
<a class="btn" href="http://parkreiner.zone">
    <div class="nav__listItem">Item One</div>
    <div class="nav__listItem">Item Two</div>
</a>
```

You've got nav-based BEM elements inside a block for a button. Nothing follows any kind of logical structure.

CSS Tricks tried to summarize this section, but I just didn't get it.

> So we can summarize these problems by:
> 1. Never overriding modifiers in an unrelated block.
> 2. Avoiding making unnecessary parent elements when the child can exist quite happily by itself.

## More BEM examples

## Criticisms of BEM

## SASS and BEM

## Summary